# MODEL1006230116: Tran2009_CardiacActiveForceGeneration

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230116.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230116.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**A metabolite-sensitive, thermodynamically constrained model of cardiac cross-bridge cycling: implications for force development during ischemia.**   
Tran K, Smith NP, Loiselle DS, Crampin EJ. _Biophys J_ 2010 Jan
20;98(2):267-76 [20338848](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20338848) ,  
**Abstract:**   
We present a metabolically regulated model of cardiac active force generation
with which we investigate the effects of ischemia on maximum force production.
Our model, based on a model of cross-bridge kinetics that was developed by
others, reproduces many of the observed effects of MgATP, MgADP, Pi, and H(+)
on force development while retaining the force/length/Ca(2+) properties of the
original model. We introduce three new parameters to account for the
competitive binding of H(+) to the Ca(2+) binding site on troponin C and the
binding of MgADP within the cross-bridge cycle. These parameters, along with
the Pi and H(+) regulatory steps within the cross-bridge cycle, were
constrained using data from the literature and validated using a range of
metabolic and sinusoidal length perturbation protocols. The placement of the
MgADP binding step between two strongly-bound and force-generating states
leads to the emergence of an unexpected effect on the force-MgADP curve, where
the trend of the relationship (positive or negative) depends on the
concentrations of the other metabolites and [H(+)]. The model is used to
investigate the sensitivity of maximum force production to changes in
metabolite concentrations during the development of ischemia. Copyright 2010
Biophysical Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Tran K, Smith NP, Loiselle DS, Crampin EJ. (2009)
- version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/cc1db86dfd7838194138b224f586bfb4)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Catherine Lloyd**   
c.lloyd@auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


